['BIOLOGY/ZOOLOGY 101 — Animal Biology 3 credits. General biological principles. Topics include: evolution, ecology, animal behavior, cell structure and function, genetics and molecular genetics and the physiology of a variety of organ systems emphasizing function in humans.', 'BIOLOGY/ZOOLOGY 102 — Animal Biology Laboratory 2 credits. General concepts of animal biology at an introductory level emphasizing the evolutionary relationships between animals. Learn about general body plans and strategies used to accomplish the basic tasks of staying alive in major animal groups using preserved and live animals. Study the diversity within each group of animals by integrating the body plans with the lifestyle and ecology of animals. Dissections of earthworm, freshwater mussel, squid, sea star, and rat aid the study of these general principles.', 'BIOLOGY/BOTANY 130 — General Botany 5 credits. Introduction to the basic principles and concepts of the biology of plants. an integrative approach stressing evolutionary sequences and the relationship between structure and function at succeeding levels of organization: molecule, cell, organism, population, community. Correlated lectures, laboratories, and discussions.', 'BIOLOGY/BOTANY/ZOOLOGY 151 — Introductory Biology 5 credits. Topics include: cell structure and function, cellular metabolism (enzymes, respiration, photosynthesis), information flow (DNA, RNA, protein), principles of genetics and selected topics in Animal Physiology.', 'BIOLOGY/BOTANY/ZOOLOGY 152 — Introductory Biology 5 credits. Topics include: selected topics in plant physiology, a survey of the five major kingdoms of organisms, speciation and evolutionary theory, and ecology at multiple levels of the biological hierarchy.', 'BIOLOGY 299 — Directed Studies 1-4 credits. Introductory directed study as arranged with a faculty member. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY 375 — Special Topics 1-5 credits. Introductory special topics on contemporary issues relevant to studying biology.', 'BIOLOGY 399 — Internship/Field Experience 1-8 credits. An internship under guidance of a faculty or instructional academic staff member and internship site supervisor. Students are responsible for arranging the work and credits with the faculty or instructional academic staff member and the internship site supervisor. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY/GENETICS 522 — Communicating Evolutionary Biology 2-3 credits. Exposure to diverse topics in contemporary evolutionary biology and development of critical thinking and communication skills. Most weeks guest lecturers present their own primary research on a specialized topic in evolutionary biology. Seminars include perspectives from genetics, ecology, geoscience, zoology, botany, microbiology, systematics, molecular biology, and integrative research. Some weeks feature special topics and discussions on pedagogical, legal, outreach, or other issues in evolutionary biology. Includes thinking critically about methodology, experimental design and interpretation, and how conclusions are reached in evolutionary biology by reading primary and secondary literature, attending seminars, discussing topics with speakers and other students, and preparing a written report. The 3-credit version of the course delves deeper into communication of evolutionary biology to researchers, undergraduates, K-12 students, and the general public.', 'BIOLOGY 675 — Special Topics 1-5 credits. Intermediate special topics on contemporary issues relevant to studying biology.', 'BIOLOGY 681 — Senior Honors Thesis 2-3 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses as arranged with a faculty member for an Honors program. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY 682 — Senior Honors Thesis 2-3 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses as arranged with a faculty member for an Honors program. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY 691 — Senior Thesis 2-3 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses as arranged with a faculty member. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY 692 — Senior Thesis 2-3 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses as arranged with a faculty member. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOLOGY 699 — Directed Studies 1-4 credits. Advanced directed study as arranged with a faculty member. Open only to students declared in Biology.', 'BIOCORE 181 — Becoming a Scientist: Doing Biology Research 2 credits. Orientation to biology research on campus, work in a research team to investigate a novel research question, and do biology research on a choice of topics: from ecology and physiology to cell biology. Emphasis is on critical thinking required in designing and conducting experiments, analyzing and interpreting data, and communicating findings orally and in writing.', 'BIOCORE 381 — Evolution, Ecology, and Genetics 3 credits. Basic principles of ecology and interrelations between individuals, populations, communities, ecosystems and their environment; transmission genetics and introduction to population genetics; origin of life, evolutionary mechanisms, ancestral relationships among species, and the diversity of life.', 'BIOCORE 382 — Evolution, Ecology, and Genetics Laboratory 2 credits. Writing-intensive with opportunities to make observations and generate and test questions. Includes ecology field trips and research projects that focus on genetics and evolution.', 'BIOCORE 383 — Cellular Biology 3 credits. Cellular and molecular basis of life. The main themes are the structure and function of cells and organelles, the flow of energy in cells, and the storage, expression, and regulation of genetic information.', 'BIOCORE 384 — Cellular Biology Laboratory 2 credits. Writing-intensive with opportunities to generate and test questions utilizing concepts and procedures of cell biology. Includes research projects in subcellular fractionation, protein structure and enzyme catalysis, molecular genetics of C.elegans worms, and signal transduction in yeast.', 'BIOCORE 401 — Peer Mentoring 1 credit. Develops mentoring, group facilitation, leadership, and interpersonal skills used in peer learning and leading mentored study groups. Focuses on the pedagogy, skills, and effective techniques used to facilitate learning in small groups. Discuss lower order to higher order cognitive levels using Blooms Taxonomy, and reciprocal mentor observations.', 'BIOCORE 485 — Principles of Physiology 3 credits. Study the physiology of and consider how plants and animals interact with their environments to survive, obtain nutrients, exchange gases, and reproduce, also how the complex systems of neural and endocrine regulation in animals and hormonal and environmental regulation in plants allow cells and organs to communicate.', 'BIOCORE 486 — Principles of Physiology Laboratory 2 credits. Experience the process of science by collaborating on independent experiments to investigate your questions about animal and plant physiology. Emphasis is on critical thinking required in designing and conducting experiments, analyzing and interpreting data, and communicating findings orally and in writing.', 'BIOCORE 587 — Biological Interactions 3 credits. A capstone course to build on and integrate the knowledge and skills gained in previous Biocore coursework through readings and analysis of primary scientific literature. Work in small groups to analyze current and emerging topics through the lens of scientific research. Topics include signaling pathways, systems biology, genetic disease, and cancer.', 'BIOCORE 699 — Directed Study 1-3 credits. Independent mentored study as arranged with a faculty member', 'B M E 1 — Cooperative Education Program 1 credit. Work experience which combines classroom theory with practical knowledge of operations providing a background upon which to base a professional career in industry.', 'B M E 200 — Biomedical Engineering Design 2 credits. Collaborate with students in B M E 300 on a client-centered biomedical engineering design project to learn concept generation, product analysis, specifications, evaluation, regulation, and ethics.', 'B M E 201 — Biomedical Engineering Design and Fundamentals 3 credits. Fundamentals of biomedical engineering and principles of design including the design process, standards, documentation, inclusion in design and research methods. Hands-on skills including electronics, programming, computer-aided design, machining, safety training, microscopy, cell and tissue engineering principles and fabrication of physical prototypes.', 'B M E 300 — Biomedical Engineering Design and Leadership 3 credits. Work on a client-centered biomedical engineering design project to learn leadership styles, concept generation, product analysis, specifications, evaluation, regulation, and ethics. Provide leadership and mentorship to students in B M E 200.', 'B M E 301 — Biomedical Engineering Design and Communication 3 credits. Technical communication for biomedical engineering practice applied to real-world, client-based projects including research methods, documentation, preparing and critiquing reports, ethical problem solving, diversity and inclusion, presenting, and professional development.', 'B M E 310 — Bioinstrumentation 3 credits. Bioinstrumentation covering clinical and research measurements. Laboratory experiments complement the lectures.', 'B M E 315 — Biomechanics 3 credits. An introduction to the mechanical behavior of biological tissues and systems. Specific topics include: structure and function of biological tissues, mechanical properties of biological tissues, and analysis of specific tissues (i.e. bone, muscle, and soft connective tissues).', 'B M E 325 — Applied Statistics for Biomedical Engineers 3 credits. Learn and apply the fundamentals of descriptive and inferential statistics to analyze data and present the results in appropriate graphical formats. Emphasis will be on applications commonly encountered in biomedical engineering including t-tests, linear regression, analysis of variance, diagnostic tests, ROC curves, and methods for graphing and presenting data. Examples and practice problems will be drawn from biomedical research. Learn how to analyze data and interpret statistical analysis presented in research papers, and will get practical hands-on experience implementing these tools during class in a computer lab setting.', 'B M E 330 — Engineering Principles of Molecules, Cells, and Tissues 4 credits. Introduction to the fundamental principles of kinetics and transport that are relevant for the analysis of biological systems. Topics covered include concepts of reaction rate, stoichiometry, equilibrium, momentum/mass transport, and the interaction between transport and kinetics in biological systems.', 'B M E 389 — Honors in Research 1-3 credits. Undergraduate honors research projects supervised by faculty members.', 'B M E 399 — Independent Study 1-3 credits. Directed study projects as arranged with instructor.', 'B M E 400 — Capstone Design Course in Biomedical Engineering 3 credits. Applies classroom study and prior design course experiences for senior teams to solve a directed client-based biomedical engineering design project.', 'B M E 402 — Biomedical Engineering Capstone Design II 3 credits. Work in a team to evaluate, refine, document and present the client-centered biomedical engineering design started in B M E 400.', 'B M E/M E 414 — Orthopaedic Biomechanics - Design of Orthopaedic Implants 3 credits. Apply the design process for orthopaedic implants (total joint replacements). Topics include: library skills; joint anatomy; tissue properties; surgical approach; joint loading; implants materials; preclinical testing and analysis.', 'B M E/M E 415 — Biomechanics of Human Movement 3 credits. An overview of experimental and modeling techniques used to study human movement. Specific topics will include locomotion, motion capture systems, force plates, muscle mechanics, musculoskeletal modeling, three dimensional kinematics, inverse dynamics, forward dynamic simulation and imaging based biomechanics. Homework and laboratory activities emphasize applications of movement biomechanics in orthopedics and rehabilitation.', 'B M E/PHM SCI 430 — Biological Interactions with Materials 3 credits. Addresses the range of materials currently being utilized for various biomedical applications, the biological systems governing biomaterial applications, analytical techniques pertinent to biomaterial evaluation, and selected major medical applications in which biomaterials play an important role.', 'B M E/E C E 462 — Medical Instrumentation 3 credits. Design and application of electrodes, biopotential amplifiers, biosensors, therapeutic devices. Medical imaging. Electrical safety. Measurement of ventilation, blood pressure and flow.', 'B M E/E C E 463 — Computers in Medicine 3 credits. Study of microprocessor-based medical instrumentation. Emphasis on real-time analysis of electrocardiograms. Labs and programming project involve design of biomedical digital signal processing algorithms. Knowledge of computer programming language like C, C++ or Java, strongly encouraged.', 'B M E 489 — Honors in Research 1-3 credits. Biomedical engineering undergraduate honors research projects supervised by faculty members.', 'B M E/H ONCOL/MED PHYS/PHYSICS 501 — Radiation Physics and Dosimetry 3 credits. Interactions and energy deposition by ionizing radiation in matter; concepts, quantities and units in radiological physics; principles and methods of radiation dosimetry.', 'B M E/M E 505 — Biofluidics 3 credits. Introduction to the physics of biological fluid flow with an emphasis on the cardiovascular system including blood rheology, pulsatile flow, wave travel, and topics relevant to blood flow measurement and biomedical device design.', 'B M E 510 — Introduction to Tissue Engineering 3 credits. Overview of tissue engineering, including discussion of cell sources, cell-material interactions, tailoring biomaterials, methods of culture and characterization of engineering tissues, ethical issues, concluding with case studies of specific types of tissue engineering. Optional laboratory exercises offered throughout semester.', 'B M E 511 — Tissue Engineering Laboratory 1 credit. Tissue engineering refers to the generation of biological substitutes to restore, maintain, or improve tissue function. Laboratory techniques are multi-disciplinary, from basic biological sciences, engineering, and biotechnology. Engineering approaches and analysis will be applied to these techniques.', 'B M E 515 — Therapeutic Medical Devices 1 credit. Design of medical devices to treat pathology.', 'B M E/M E 516 — Finite Elements for Biological and Other Soft Materials 3 credits. Finite element modeling of soft materials, with an emphasis on biological tissues. Basics of the finite element method, verification and validation methods, and selection of constitutive models. Emphasis on finite element modeling for materials that are generally nonlinear, and that generally undergo large deformation.', 'B M E 517 — Biology in Engineering Seminar 1 credit. Current topics at the interface of biology and engineering with special emphasis on the ways in which engineers have contributed to knowledge and advances in biology.', 'B M E 520 — Stem Cell Bioengineering 3 credits. Covers engineering approaches that are used to understand and manipulate stem cells. Concepts covered include: introduction to stem cell biology, quantitative modeling of stem cell signaling, methods to engineer the stem cell microenvironment, and the role of stem cells in tissue development and regeneration.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 530 — Medical Imaging Systems 3 credits. 2D Fourier image representation, sampling, and image filtering with applications in medical imaging. Principles of operation, impulse responses, signal-to-noise, resolution and design tradeoffs in projection radiography, tomography, nuclear medicine, ultrasound, and magnetic resonance imaging.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 535 — Introduction to Energy-Tissue Interactions 3 credits. Explore physical interactions between thermal, electromagnetic and acoustic energies and biological tissues with emphasis on therapeutic medical applications.', 'B M E 545 — Engineering Extracellular Matrices 3 credits. Overview of the structure, function and biophysical properties of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, followed by discussion of how control or manipulation of ECM protein expression and distribution impacts on cell and tissue function, concluding with impacts of engineering ECM for regenerative medicine.', 'B M E 550 — Introduction to Biological and Medical Microsystems 3 credits. Introduction to the field of MEMS (Micro-Electro-Mechanical-Systems), as it applies to biology and medicine. Topics will cover methodology of traditional MEMS devices, how they can be incorporated with biological systems, and methods for micro-structuring biological materials.', 'B M E 556 — Systems Biology: Mammalian Signaling Networks 3 credits. Introduction to the experimental and mathematical modeling techniques used in systems biology through lectures and critical analyses of relevant publications with a primary focus on gene/protein networks and mammalian systems.', 'B M E/CBE 560 — Biochemical Engineering 3 credits. Properties of biological molecules; enzyme kinetics, enzyme reactors, and enzyme engineering; metabolic engineering; microbial growth kinetics; bioreactor design; bioseparations.', 'B M E/I SY E 564 — Occupational Ergonomics and Biomechanics 3 credits. Introduces engineers how to design manufacturing and industrial operations in which people play a significant role, so that human capabilities are maximized, physical stress is minimized, and workload is optimized. Examples and topics emphasize industrial applications.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 566 — Physics of Radiotherapy 3 credits. Ionizing radiation use in radiation therapy to cause controlled biological effects in cancer patients. Physics of the interaction of the various radiation modalities with body-equivalent materials, and physical aspects of clinical applications.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 567 — The Physics of Diagnostic Radiology 4 credits. Physics of x-ray diagnostic procedures and equipment, radiation safety, general imaging considerations; lecture and lab.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 568 — Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) 2 credits. Core course covering the physics associated with magnetic resonance imaging emphasizing techniques employed in medical diagnostic imaging. Major MRI topics include: physics of MR, pulse sequences, hardware, imaging techniques, artifacts, and clinical applications. At the completion of this course, students should have an understanding of the technical and scientific details of modern magnetic resonance imaging and its use in diagnosing disease. Graduate students who have not taken MATH 222 and PHYSICS 202 at UW-Madison must have the equivalent coursework in order to be successful in this course.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 573 — Mathematical Methods in Medical Physics 3 credits. Mathematical fundamentals required for medical physics and biomedical applications, including signal analysis and mathematical optimization.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 574 — Data Science in Medical Physics 3 credits. Concepts and principles of statistics and machine learning for medical physics-related research problems. Topics covered include probability and independence, discrete and continuous random variables and statistical distributions, random sampling and central limit theorem, inference for means, variances, proportions, moment generating functions, maximum likelihood, hypothesis testing, ANOVA, linear regression, correlation and basic design of experiments with application to quality assurance, reliability, and reproducibility.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 575 — Diagnostic Ultrasound Imaging 2 credits. Propagation of ultrasonic waves in biological tissues; principles of ultrasonic measuring and imaging instrumentation; design and use of currently available tools for performance evaluation of diagnostic instrumentation; biological effects of ultrasound.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 578 — Non-Ionizing Diagnostic Imaging 4 credits. Covers the physics associated with magnetic resonance imaging and diagnostic ultrasound emphasizing techniques employed in medical diagnostic imaging. Major MRI topics include: physics of MR, pulse sequences, hardware, imaging techniques, artifacts, and spectroscopic localization. Ultrasound based topics covered include: propagation of ultrasonic waves in biological tissues, principles of ultrasonic measuring and imaging instrumentation, design and use of currently available tools for performance evaluation of diagnostic instrumentation, and biological effects of ultrasound. Gain an understanding of the technical and scientific details of modern non-ionizing medical magnetic resonance and ultrasound devices and their use in diagnosing disease.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 580 — The Physics of Medical Imaging with Ionizing Radiation 4 credits. Concepts and principles on the physics of medical imaging systems that form images using high energy photons are presented. Such systems are divided into two categories: (1) those based on the transmission of x-rays through the human body, including radiography, mammography, fluoroscopy, and computed tomography (CT), and (2) those based on the emission of gamma rays or annihilation radiation following radioactive decay of an internal radiolabeled molecule, including the gamma camera, single photon emission tomography (SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET) and PET hybrid imaging systems. Emphasis is placed on understanding how physics, system design, and imaging technique determine image performance metrics such as contrast, signal-to-noise ratio, and spatial resolution. Clinical applications and radiation safety concepts are detailed for the different types of imaging systems.', 'B M E 601 — Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering 1-3 credits. Directed study projects as arranged with instructor.', 'B M E 602 — Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering 1-3 credits. Special topics in biomedical engineering for graduate students or both graduate and undergraduate students together.', 'B M E 603 — Special Topics in Bioinstrumentation and Medical Devices 1-3 credits. Various special topics in bioinstrumentation and medical devices.', 'B M E 604 — Special Topics in Biomedical Imaging and Optics 1-3 credits. Various special topics in biomedical imaging and optics.', 'B M E/M E 605 — Special Topics in Biomechanics 1-3 credits. Various special topics in biomechanics.', 'B M E 606 — Special Topics in Biomaterials, Cellular and Tissue Engineering 1-3 credits. Various special topics in biomaterials, cellular and tissue engineering.', 'B M E/M E 615 — Tissue Mechanics 3 credits. Focus on solid mechanics of prominent musculoskeletal and cardiovascular tissues. Their normal and pathological behaviors (stiffness, strength, relaxation, creep, adaptive remodeling, etc.) in response to physiologic loading will be examined and quantified.', 'B M E/MED PHYS/PHMCOL-M/PHYSICS/RADIOL 619 — Microscopy of Life 3 credits. Survey of state of the art microscopic, cellular and molecular imaging techniques, beginning with subcellular microscopy and finishing with whole animal imaging.', 'B M E 630 — Nanomaterials for Biomedical Applications 3 credits. An in-depth discussion of the chemistry, structure, synthesis/fabrication, and properties of various types of nanomaterials (e.g., liposomes, polymer micelles, polymersomes, dendrimers, and a number of inorganic nanoparticles) and their applications in therapeutics (e.g., drug and gene delivery), diagnostics (e.g. biosensing and molecular imaging), and tissue engineering.', 'B M E 640 — Medical Devices Ecosystem: The Path to Product 3 credits. Development of medical devices for therapeutic or diagnostic purposes. Gap analysis, market analysis, reimbursement/distribution, regulatory approval, and manufacturing/supply chain development. Refinement and presentation of design ideas and corporate strategy within a team setting. Case studies of device design/manufacture including supply chain, intellectual property, pre-clinical testing, U.S. and European regulatory pathways and clinical trial design.', 'B M E 651 — Biophotonics Laboratory 3 credits. Learn and apply the fundamentals of optical imaging, microscopy and instrumentation via practical hands-on training with a specific emphasis on the life-sciences applications. Topics include constructing imaging systems using fundamental optical tools and instruments, illumination and aberrations, microscopy techniques, resolution and contrast measurement, optical spectroscopy, nanophotonics, bioimaging and biosensing.', 'B M E/I SY E 662 — Design and Human Disability and Aging 3 credits. Design of products for persons with physical, sensory or cognitive impairments is covered as well as the design of standard mass market products. Interdisciplinary teams explore specific disabilities, then design a standard mass market product in competition with each other.', 'B M E/CRB 670 — Biology of Heart Disease and Regeneration 3 credits. Presents diverse topics in contemporary heart biology to facilitate understanding of biological, mechanistic, and experimental concepts of cardiac physiology, disease, and regeneration. Learn cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying heart physiology, function, disease and regenerative ability in various model systems. Includes thinking critically about methodology, experimental design and interpretation, and how conclusions are reached in heart biology through cutting-edge literature.', 'B M E 701 — Seminar in Biomedical Engineering 1 credit. Presentation of advancements in biomedical engineering research by leaders in the field, accompanied by critical analysis of related literature.', 'B M E 702 — Graduate Cooperative Education Program 1-2 credits. Work experience that combines classroom theory with practical knowledge of operations to provide students with a background on which to develop and enhance a professional career. The work experience is tailored for MS students from within the U.S. as well as eligible international students.', 'B M E 703 — Responsible Conduct of Research for Biomedical Engineers 2 credits. Develop an understanding of the elements involved in being a responsible member of the Biomedical Engineering research community. Topics include mentor/mentee relationships, identifying research problems, research integrity, ethics, regulations, and improving the scientific climate.', 'B M E/MED PHYS 710 — Advances in Medical Magnetic Resonance 3 credits. Addresses the theory and applications of magnetic resonance (MR) in medicine, by providing the necessary theoretical background to understand advanced MR techniques including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).', 'B M E/M E 715 — Advanced Tissue Mechanics 3 credits. Central topics in solid mechanics applied to soft tissues, including analysis of strain in the setting of large deformations, computation of stress in multiple experimental loading configurations, constitutive modeling of biomaterials using hyperelastic strain-energy functions, modeling tissue growth and remodeling, and the main theories for soft tissue failure will be covered. Application of finite elasticity theory in practical laboratory situations, and key papers and concepts in soft tissue mechanics.', 'B M E 740 — Biomanufacturing Entrepreneurship 3 credits. Industry-relevant concepts of biotechnology innovation and translation, directly connecting lessons and classwork to real-world experience and career opportunities and promoting meaningful and sustained engagement between students and industry representatives. Diverse range of translational biotechnology principles, such as product development in biotechnology, regulating biotechnology products, and quality and compliance in biomanufactured products.', 'B M E/CHEM/MED PHYS 750 — Biological Optical Microscopy 3 credits. Covers several aspects of state-of-the-art biological and biophysical imaging with an emphasis on instrumentation, beginning with an overview of geometrical optics and optical and fluorescence microscopy. The bulk of the course will focus on advanced imaging techniques including nonlinear optical processes (multi-photon excitation, second harmonic generation, and stimulated Raman processes) and emerging super-resolution methods. Special emphasis will be given to current imaging literature and experimental design. Knowledge of physics-based optics [such as PHYSICS 202] strongly recommended.', 'B M E 751 — Biomedical Optics and Biophotonics 3 credits. The study and use of light in the life sciences. Interactions of light with cells and tissue can be used for imaging, measurement, diagnosis, and therapy. Applications include optical imaging, endoscopy, microscopy, resolution enhancement, adaptive optics, Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), quantitative phase microscopy, spectroscopy (fluorescence, elastic scattering), diffuse optical tomography, and computational modeling of light transport in tissue. Fundamental skills, concepts, and theory used for these applications include geometric optics, lens design, Fourier transforms, polarization, interference, coherence, and scattering theory. Particular emphasis will be placed on current literature and cutting edge instruments and methods.', 'B M E/E C E/MED PHYS 778 — Machine Learning in Ultrasound Imaging 3 credits. Concepts and machine learning techniques for ultrasound beamforming for image formation and reconstruction to image analysis and interpretation will be presented. Key machine learning and deep learning concepts applied to beamforming, compressed sampling, speckle reduction, segmentation, photoacoustics, and elasticity imaging will be evaluated utilizing current peer-reviewed publications.', 'B M E 780 — Methods in Quantitative Biology 1 credit. Focuses on understanding the key methods and principles of quantitative biology through a close reading of the primary literature. Topics covered will include deterministic and stochastic methods for modeling cellular systems, techniques in systems and synthetic biology, image processing tools and image analysis for biology, data-driven network models, genomic approaches, single-molecule approaches, and key computational biology tools. This course is intended for graduate students from a variety of backgrounds who are interested in pursuing quantitative biology during their graduate studies.', 'B M E/CBE 782 — Modeling Biological Systems 3 credits. Literature survey of mathematical models in biology at the molecular and cellular levels; application of chemical kinetics and thermodynamics to biological systems; comparison of deterministic and stochastic strategies.', 'B M E/CBE 783 — Design of Biological Molecules 3 credits. Introduction to the methodologies for engineering the structure and function of biological molecules, especially proteins. Develop an understanding for the integration of computation and experiment to address biological molecular engineering problems. Knowledge of biochemistry and cell biology [such as BIOCHEM 501 or ZOOLOGY 570] required.', "B M E 790 — Master's Research and Thesis 1-9 credits. Under faculty supervision.", 'B M E 799 — Advanced Independent Study 1-5 credits. Under faculty supervision.', 'B M E 890 — Pre-dissertation Research 1-9 credits. Under faculty supervision.', 'B M E/B M I/BIOCHEM/CBE/COMP SCI/GENETICS 915 — Computation and Informatics in Biology and Medicine 1 credit. Participants and outside speakers will discuss current research in computation and informatics in biology and medicine. This seminar is required of all CIBM program trainees.', 'B M E 990 — Research and Thesis 1-9 credits. Under faculty supervision.', 'B M E 999 — Advanced Independent Study 1-9 credits. Under faculty supervision.', 'DERM 601 — Skin Biology and Skin Diseases 3 credits. Introduction to basic science principles of skin biology and skin diseases (biochemistry, molecular biology, genetics, etc.). Provides a strong base and training to future scientists, physicians, and industrial leaders in skin sciences and skin care, as well as drug and device development.', 'DERM 904 — Science of Cutaneous Disease 2 credits. The practice of Dermatology encompasses diseases of the skin, mucosal surfaces, hair and nails. The scientific specialty integrates cellular and molecular biology, immunology, microbiology, and physiology to support patient care decisions. Learn basic science principles of normal and abnormal cutaneous functioning, building on the principles introduced in the MED SC-M 774. These core concepts will be applied though interactions with patients in the clinical setting, building foundational basic science knowledge to diagnose and treat dermatologic diseases.', "DERM 910 — Independent Reading and Research in Dermatology 2-8 credits. Independent research under the direct supervision of Dermatology faculty. Each student's research project is individualized to meet student research goals within the context of faculty research needs.", 'DERM 919 — Individualized Clinical Elective in Dermatology 2-4 credits. Experience blends medical and procedural dermatology, dermatopathology and basic science topics. Advance patient care skills through exposure to a broad array of common and complex cutaneous diseases, formulation of basic differential diagnoses and treatment plans, and performance of common diagnostic procedures. Experience via rotations through general adult and pediatric dermatology clinics, as well as specialty clinics. Opportunities may arise for participation in inpatient dermatology consults. All clinical activities will be completed under the direct supervision of attending physicians and residents. Participate in additional educational activities, including faculty lectures, Grand Rounds conference, and reading or on-line assignments. Additional patient care related learning activities may be assigned by instructors (e.g., literature reviews, presentations on specific topics); these are dependent on the individual student, attending physician, and clinical site.', 'DERM 953 — Dermatology Elective 2-4 credits. Experience blends medical and procedural dermatology, dermatopathology and basic science topics. Advance patient care skills through exposure to a broad array of common and complex cutaneous diseases, formulation of basic differential diagnoses and treatment plans, and performance of common diagnostic procedures. Experience via rotations through general adult and pediatric dermatology clinics, as well as specialty clinics. Opportunities may arise for participation in inpatient dermatology consults. All clinical activities will be completed under the direct supervision of attending physicians and residents. Participate in additional educational activities, including faculty lectures, Grand Rounds conference, and reading or on-line assignments. Additional patient care related learning activities may be assigned by instructors (e.g., literature reviews, presentations on specific topics); these are dependent on the individual student, attending physician, and clinical site.', 'DERM 954 — Ambulatory Dermatology Elective 2-4 credits. Outpatient dermatology experience provides exposure to a typical private practice where patients present with a broad array of problems. Learn to diagnose, treat, and/or appropriately refer common dermatologic conditions and to be aware of cutaneous manifestations of serious and significant systemic disease.', 'DERM 955 — Public Health in Dermatology Selective 2 credits. Explore the difficulties and opportunities available in improving public health in the specialized field of dermatology. Topics and readings have been developed with public health experts from around the country, and include discussions surrounding skin cancer screening and overdiagnosis, as well as dermatologic challenges in LGBTQ+, skin of color, rural, and inmate communities.', 'DS 101 — Introduction to Textile Design 3 credits. This survey class will be an introduction to the technical and conceptual ways of working in Textile Design. Students will participate in three five week modules: one module introducing print and dye concerns, one module introducing off-loom processes, and one module introducing structural enrichment techniques and concepts. Each module will include a series of introductory exercises leading to a final larger project. The work in each module will be supported by short readings and slide lectures highlighting historical and contemporary work. Course fee: yes.', 'DS 120 — Design: Fundamentals I 3 credits. Elements and principles of design. Lecture and studio experience relevant to design of the visual environment.', 'DS 130 — Introduction to Interior Architecture 3 credits. This course is an introduction to interior architecture, as a discipline and as a profession. We will examine the ways in which interior environments impact our lives, and the challenges and responsibilities faced by those who work in this field. Topics include: the history of interior design as a profession; the increased professionalization of interior design; the relation of interior design to other design disciplines (such as architecture and furniture design); the social, economic, and environmental issues that impact design; the role of emerging technologies (including digital media); design research and documentation; the elements and principles of design; the identification and observation of quality work in both commercial and residential settings; contemporary trends in taste and aesthetics; and the application of design research methods to a real-world project. This course will provide students with the foundation necessary to continue as interior architecture majors.', 'DS 140 — Visual Thinking - Form and Space 3 credits. Manual and digital techniques for idea exploration, concept development, and design presentation using a variety of media. Projects in hand drawing techniques and professional design software. Gain heightened attention to detail; understand the relationship of two-dimensional drawings and three-dimensional objects; explore multiple design solutions visually; convey technical information, and professionally communicate design concepts. Introduce visual communication, visual thinking, visual inspiration and visual representation', 'DS 150 — Visual Thinking - Pixels and Pencils 3 credits. Explores visual media as a means of describing what exists, as a method for generating ideas for what could be, and for professionally communicating a design concept. Projects will utilize hand drawing techniques as well as professional design software. Supports the proficiency of technical skills while teaching essential methods for creative practice. Learn to move fluidly across platforms to visually explore possibilities, refine ideas, and professionally communicate design plans.', 'DS 153 — Sewn Construction I 3 credits. Introduces the principles of sewn construction and addresses the physical and aesthetic properties of fiber and fabrics in the context of apparel design. The studios address skills necessary to plan and construct basic garments. Lectures, hands-on studios, and critiques explore the fundamentals of apparel structure and emphasize the interrelationship of fabric, design and apparel construction as well as the creative, expressive potential of materials and making.', 'DS 154 — Sewn Construction II 3 credits. Emphasizes specialty fabrics, finishes and complex construction such as matching plaids and working with pile fabrics. Introduces pattern manipulation through basic flat patternmaking principles. Design and fabricate an original collection of garments for a target customer and will develop and construct two of the garments.', 'DS 210 — Fashion Illustration 3 credits. Introduction to visual communication of apparel design concepts using selected media. Focus is on drawing the fashion figure, using special techniques, with emphasis on the relationship of figure, garment, fabric, texture, and pattern.', 'DS 215 — Patternmaking for Accessories 3 credits. The principles and theories of flat pattern, drafting and draping methods for 3D accessories are explored. The principles of patternmaking are applied to headwear, handbags and footwear. Students complete projects that require designing, patterning and constructing hats, bags and footwear.', 'DS 220 — Design: Fundamentals II 3 credits. Elements and principles of three-dimensional design. Lecture and studio experience relevant to design and analysis of the spatial environment.', 'DS 221 — Person and Environment Interactions 3 credits. Effects of building and outdoor spaces on people over the life course.', 'DS 222 — Interior Design I 4 credits. Understanding and applying the process of solving design problems of interiors. Space planning; selection and use of furnishings and materials; preparation of presentations.', 'DS 223 — Interior Architectural Design 3 credits. Building components, construction, interpretation of working drawing, and the process of project development.', 'DS 224 — Interior Materials and Finishes 3 credits. The materials used in interior environments are immense, diverse and constantly changing. This course will focus on the composition of materials, their uses, and how they affect human health and well being.', 'DS 225 — Apparel Design I 3 credits. Basic principles and elements of design as they apply to apparel. Emphasizing both process and product, students analyze fashion trends and practical problems while developing and executing original designs.', 'DS/ART 226 — Textile Design: Off-Loom Construction 3 credits. Studio design problems in two and three dimensional off-loom constructions; off-loom weaving, looping, and knotting; historical reference and contemporary application.', 'DS 227 — Textile Design: Printing and Dyeing I 3 credits. Surface design developed in print and resist techniques using historic and contemporary methods.', 'DS 228 — Textile Embellishment I 3 credits. Historic and contemporary design techniques for embellishing textiles; including embroidery, beadwork and appliqué.', 'DS/ART 229 — Textile Design: Weaving I 3 credits. The relationship of hand weaving to textural surfaces and sculptural forms are examined through the study of problems including structure, pattern, composition, and additional conceptual technical possibilities. Content is explored in the development of individual direction and in relationship to the discussion of historical and contemporary textiles and other works of art. Allows students to pursue an advanced investigation of concept and technique of hand-woven cloth.', 'DS/GEN BUS 240 — Human-centered Design and Business 2 credits. Design thinking is an iterative problem-solving process geared toward producing innovative solutions for complex and persistent problems in various fields and organizations. Its process, culture, and value system from both design and business point of views will be covered: Empathetic understanding of the end users, problem definition rooted in systems thinking, ideation with a strong emphasis on creativity, visualization and prototyping, testing rooted in a set of research methods, and finally, the importance of iteration in bringing about innovative solutions. The path from project to market will also be explored, with an understanding of how one might balance desirability, feasibility and viability.', 'DS 241 — Visual Communication I 3 credits. The course focuses on the basic concepts, methods and materials used for communicating ideas during the design process. The course emphasizes creating visually driven experiences, with the goal of giving students the tools to integrate traditional manual approaches with up-to-the-minute digital approaches, all within the context of creative design thinking.', 'DS 242 — Visual Communication II 3 credits. Advanced topics focusing on the concepts, methods and materials used for communicating ideas during the design process. With an emphasis on creating visually driven experiences, the course integrates traditional manual approaches with up-to-the-minute digital approaches, all within the context of creative design thinking.', 'DS 251 — Textile Science 3 credits. Chemistry and physics of fibers and polymers. Principles of chemical finishes and dyeing. Qualitative fiber analysis. Structure and properties of yarns and fabrics.', 'DS 252 — Design Leadership Symposium 1 credit. Provides detailed examination of design careers in the fields of textiles, fashion, and apparel design as well as interior design, industrial design, and architecture. High level industry experts from leading companies in the design industry participate as guest speakers and panel members.', 'DS 253 — Patternmaking for Apparel Design 3 credits. The theory and principles of pattern making through flat pattern and draping techniques.', 'DS/ANTHRO/ART HIST/HISTORY/LAND ARC 264 — Dimensions of Material Culture 4 credits. This course introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of material culture studies. It is intended for students interested in any professional endeavor related to material culture, including careers in museums, galleries, historical societies, historic preservation organizations, and academic institutions. During the semester, students have varied opportunities to engage with and contemplate the material world to which people give meaning and which, in turn, influences their lives. Sessions combine in some way the following: presentations from faculty members and professionals who lecture on a phase of material culture related to his/her own scholarship or other professional work; discussion of foundational readings in the field; visits to collections and sites on campus and around Madison; discussion of readings assigned by visiting presenters or the professors; and exams and short papers that engage material culture topics.', 'DS 270 — Design and Fashion Event Practicum 2 credits. Addresses the multi-disciplinary production of a student-centered, student-driven design and fashion event. Topics include, creative direction, strategic marketing, stage and performance, visual communication, event organization, audience engagement and event production. Students in this class will gain knowledge, skills and hands-on experience implementing a large-scale art event. Emphasizes teamwork and fosters multi-disciplinary appreciation.', 'DS 299 — Independent Study 1-3 credits. Directed study projects for freshmen and sophomores as arranged with a faculty member.', 'DS 319 — Cloth to Clothing 3 credits. This studio class will explore specific dye and manipulation techniques that directly relate to integrated textile and garment design. Working with color, composition and fabric movement we will discuss simple garment shapes and how they can be used in conjunction with expressive textiles.', 'DS 321 — Problem-definition: Design Programming 3 credits. Programming is the problem definition phase of design process. An architectural or design program is used to guide the design process and to evaluate design solutions. A variety of design programming approaches, tools, and techniques are presented. Opportunity to develop skills in preparing a design program document that includes multiple user-needs and principles of environment-behavior interaction.', 'DS 322 — Interior Design II 4 credits. Design of residential interiors including space planning, lighting design, selections of materials and furniture, professional communication of design solutions. Emphasis on the aesthetic and functional needs of the family and residents with special needs.', 'DS 327 — Textile Design: Manual/Computer Generated Imagery and Pattern 3 credits. Pattern design for textiles, wallpaper and other applications (motif, layout, repeats, colorways, coordinates), using various manual and digital creation methods. Development of imagery, design concepts, collaboration and presentation.', 'DS 341 — Design Thinking for Transformation 3 credits. Students will learn design thinking techniques to enhance creative analysis and problem solving. Students will directly apply what they have learned to a variety of human centered design challenges. Students will innovate, prototype, and test designs that address real-word problems with real-world constraints and the limitations of technology. Projects range from ways to improve everyday situations to community issues.', 'DS 355 — History of Fashion, 1400-Present 3 credits. Changing form and meaning of costume in the West from Renaissance to present. Dress considered in relation to social/cultural milieu and as an art form. Includes treatment of the body; ethnic/class variations; couture; "antifashion".', 'DS 361 — Design-Related International Experience 1-6 credits. In-depth study of art/design concepts and/or practice in a specific culture. Each class looks at cultural issues through a particularized design-related lens. Students live and work in the country they are studying.', 'DS/ART HIST 363 — American Decorative Arts and Interiors: 1620-1840 3-4 credits. Interdisciplinary study of the design, production, and consumption of household objects and their American domestic settings, 17th through the early 19th centuries.', 'DS 401 — FIT Accessories Design 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for accessory design courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 402 — FIT Advertising and Marketing Communications 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for advertising and marketing communications courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 403 — FIT Communication Design Foundation 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for communication design foundation courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW- Madison', 'DS 404 — FIT Fashion Business Management 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for fashion business management courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 405 — FIT Fashion Design 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for fashion design courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 406 — FIT Textile Design and Science 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for textile design and science courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 407 — FIT Related Area 1-6 credits. Provides equivalency for related area courses completed at the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) by Textiles Fashion Design majors as part of the FIT visiting student program. This is not a course that can be enrolled in at UW-Madison', 'DS 421 — History of Architecture and Interiors I: Antiquity through 18th Century 3 credits. This course surveys the history of architecture, interiors, furnishings and decorative arts from antiquity to the mid-19th century. Lectures and readings introduce major design cultures and movements, emphasizing the role of social, economic, political, technological, and aesthetic factors in the shaping design.', 'DS 422 — History of Architecture & Interiors II: 19th and 20th Centuries 3 credits. This course surveys the history of architecture, interiors, furnishings and decorative arts from the mid-19th to the mid-20th century. Lectures and readings introduce major design cultures and movements, emphasizing the role of social, economic, political, technological, and aesthetic factors in the shaping design.']