['DS 427 — Textile Design: Printing and Dyeing II 3 credits. Focuses on silkscreen printing. Discharge, burnout, and chemical resist processes, specific to screen printing, will be introduced. Students will be asked to develop conceptual ideas and explore alternative ways of producing images.', 'DS 428 — Textile Embellishment II 3 credits. Opportunity to continue creative research introduced in Textile Embellishment I, with a special emphasis on student driven design. Advance skill and vision using traditional and experimental ways of altering and enriching the surface of pliable materials using techniques such as stitching, embroidery, beading, and fabric collage. Identify and pursue individual conceptual concerns. Readings, formal and informal presentations, group and individual critiques will support the work. Presentation of research will include formal power point talks and physical presentation of the completed textile works.', 'DS 429 — Textile Design: Weaving II 3 credits. Analysis of complex or compound hand weave techniques. Individual development of solutions to problems of structural textile design.', 'DS 430 — History of Textiles 3 credits. Designs and meanings and interrelationships of textiles in selected cultures and time periods.', 'DS 451 — Color Theory and Technology 3 credits. Color technology and its impact on a variety of scientific and design oriented fields are discussed. Emphasis is placed on the spectrophotometric measurement of color and the use of computer technology to create, analyze and match color.', 'DS 501 — Special Topics 1-3 credits. Specialized subject matter of current interest to undergraduate students. Requisite varies by topic', 'DS/COMP SCI/I SY E 518 — Wearable Technology 3 credits. Gives students hands-on experience in building wearable computing platforms. Designed for students who have a background in textiles and apparel design, computer science, engineering or media arts. By the completion of the course students will have fundamental knowledge of electronic circuitry, programming, and "maker skills".', 'DS 519 — Collection Development 3 credits. An opportunity for advanced students in Design and Art to demonstrate accumulated learning through a semester long project in the development of a collection of marketable artisan works within their own media. Combines classroom-based learning explorations with real world technical and economic considerations to successfully navigate a balance between expansive thinking and application in real world situations.', 'DS 527 — Global Artisans 3 credits. In the field of design, there has been an increased emphasis on ethical practices in production and consumption. Utilizing "design thinking", students in this project-based survey course will be exposed to important issues surrounding small-scale artisan production and develop valuable hands-on skills working with artisan partners through design, quality control, branding and story- telling. Topics may include: fair trade development, product design, cultural implications, as well as pricing, marketing, and sales.', 'DS 528 — Experimental Textile Design 2-3 credits. Experimental design and decorative principles; elements and techniques for the animation of textile surfaces.', "DS 529 — Building a Sustainable Creative Practice 3 credits. Artists and designers' material choices influence the content, social meaning, and physical structure of their work, as well as leaving an environmental foot print and affecting social exchange. Beginning with the consideration of reuse and recycling, students in this studio class will critically engage ideas of sustainability in art making and design practice with an emphasis on fiber related topics including textile and apparel design, soft sculpture, papermaking and book arts, as well as exhibition, installation, and/or the distribution of finished works.", 'DS 549 — Environmental Control Systems: Lighting, Acoustics, and Thermal Comfort in Buildings 3 credits. The ways in which we design, construct, and operate has significant impacts on the building occupants and the environment. Architects, designers, and building engineers can work closely together to reduce depletion of critical resources, prevent environmental degradation, and create built environments that are livable, comfortable, safe, and productive. Offers the foundational knowledge on which such practice can be built on. Through a series of lectures, field measurements, and building simulations, understand how lighting, acoustics, and thermal properties behave in buildings and influence the building occupants. The proper application of building design as well as methods for designing and evaluating these features are discussed.', 'DS 561 — Textiles: Specifications and End Use Analysis 3 credits. Physical textile testings are studied. Emphasis is placed on the evaluation of textiles intended for use as apparel and for interiors. Writing specifications, and minimum performance standards are also discussed.', 'DS 570 — Design and Fashion Event Management 3 credits. Production of a student-driven, student-centered design and fashion event presents the framework for advanced experience and study for upper-level students. This course provides the opportunity to study and to actively engage in high-level interdisciplinary exploration and collaboration. Transferring discipline-specific skills to a new context, students will learn methods for testing, review, and revision to develop problem-solving skills and communication. The course encourages teamwork as well as crossdisciplinary understanding and appreciation.', 'DS/COMP SCI 579 — Virtual Reality 3 credits. Introduces students to the field of virtual reality and focuses on creating immersive, interactive virtual experiences. Survey topics include historical perspectives on virtual reality technology, computer graphics and 3D modeling, human perception and psychology, human computer interaction and user interface design. This course is designed for students with backgrounds in Computer Science, Engineering, Art, Architecture and Design. Students will work in interdisciplinary teams on projects, culminating in a final event that will be showcased to the public. While not an official uisite, the class will be technologically motivated; therefore students should be comfortable learning new software. The class will utilize publicly available game design software which provides tools and services for the creation of interactive content. While not necessary, students may find it helpful to have taken classes in programming and computer graphics (such COMP SCI 559: Computer Graphics) or in 3D modeling (such as ART 429: 3D Digital Studio I or DS 242: Visual Communication II).', 'DS 601 — Internship 1-8 credits. Enables students with supervised internships to earn academic credit while engaged in a professional experience in design studies related fields. Course intended for juniors and seniors in Design Studies.', "DS 620 — Visual Thinking for Problem Solving 3 credits. Visual thinking's theoretical foundations are paired with visual thinking skills, tools, and applications. The format explores the way these can be combined while thinking critically and engaging with problem solving methodologies such as design thinking. Theoretical foundations include the elements and principles of design, the processes of visual narrative, and perceptual theories. Skills and applications include manual sketching, 3D visualization and modeling, data visualization, image manipulation, graphic design, video presentation, multimedia, design for 3D printing and fabrication, diagramming, digital rendering, and graphic design.", 'DS 622 — Interior Design III 4 credits. Design of commercial interiors with emphasis on design process, programming, space planning, selection of interior materials, furniture, and lighting. Field trip required.', 'DS 623 — Interior Design IV 4 credits. Design of commercial interiors with emphasis on acoustics, codes, costs, specifications, details, and visual presentation. Field trip required.', 'DS 624 — Interior Architecture Professional Practice 3 credits. Prepares Interior Architecture majors to launch their careers in design. Become cquainted with aspects of the interior design profession: how an office works, the project delivery process in interior design practice, and post-graduation material preparation.', 'DS 626 — Interior Design V 4 credits. Provides the opportunity to explore and refine interior design skills while responding to current events and the ever changing world around us. Follow the design process from research, programming, conceptual and schematic design, full design development and presentation. All aspects of designing an interiors project in detail will be addressed, including space planning, interior architectural articulation, furniture selection, finish selection, detailing of custom elements, rendering, website development for client presentation, and more.', 'DS/LAND ARC 639 — Culture and Built Environment 3 credits. The course explores cultural values embedded in buildings through understanding physical configurations, social organizations, practiced/symbolic/representational aspects of buildings. The course covers a wide range of cultures and the built environments they produce including examples from the Americas, the Middle East, as well as those of the many ethnic minorities in the U.S.', 'DS 641 — Advanced Design Thinking for Transformation 3 credits. An empathetic, human-centered perspective that uses Design Thinking and draws from historical precedence and current research from a variety of fields to help solve complex and persistent problems such as student mental health awareness and lack of clean drinking water. Utilizes advanced design thinking techniques to enhance creative analysis and problem solving to address real-word problems with real-world constraints and the limitations of technology. Projects range from ways to improve everyday situations to community issues.', 'DS 642 — Taste 3 credits. Exploration of the idea of taste - both "good" and "bad", in "popular" and "high" culture. Cross-cultural readings from theoretical and historical perspectives, relating to architecture, landscape, public space, art, and clothing.', 'DS 679 — Research Methods in Design 3 credits. Future designers need to have critical research knowledge and skillsets that include mastery of various research methods, related issues, and practical experiences in understanding and interpreting quantitative or qualitative research. Design research allows designers to be involved directly with objects, products, and environments they design through human-centered inquiry. The major concepts addressed include design research and its influence on the practice of design, generating research questions, critical literature review, research evaluation, data management and analysis, and various research strategies, all geared toward application to various design practices.', 'DS 680 — Senior Honors Thesis 2-4 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses for Human Ecology honors degrees as arranged with a faculty member.', 'DS 690 — Senior Thesis 2-4 credits. Individual study for seniors completing theses as arranged with a faculty member.', 'DS 699 — Independent Study 1-6 credits. Directed study projects for juniors and seniors as arranged with a faculty member.', 'DS/ANTHRO/ART HIST/HISTORY/LAND ARC 764 — Dimensions of Material Culture 4 credits. This course introduces students to the interdisciplinary field of material culture studies. It is intended for students interested in any professional endeavor related to material culture, including careers in museums, galleries, historical societies, historic preservation organizations, and academic institutions. During the semester, students have varied opportunities to engage with and contemplate the material world to which people give meaning and which, in turn, influences their lives. Sessions combine in some way the following: presentations from faculty members and professionals who lecture on a phase of material culture related to his/her own scholarship or other professional work; discussion of foundational readings in the field; visits to collections and sites on campus and around Madison; discussion of readings assigned by visiting presenters or the professors; and exams and short papers that engage material culture topics.', 'DS 920 — Seminar in Design Studies 1-3 credits. This course is intended as forum for Design Studies graduate students to discuss issues in contemporary art and design.', 'DS/F&W ECOL/URB R PL 955 — Practical Research Design and Methods of Empirical Inquiry 3 credits. Provides a practical introduction to basic concepts of research question formulation, research designs and alternative methods of inquiry, implications for internal validity of the research and generalizability of the findings, operational definitions and measurement validity, reliability, utility and precision.', 'DS 990 — Research and Thesis 1-12 credits. Independent research and writing for graduate students under the supervision of a faculty member.', 'DS 999 — Independent Study 1-3 credits. Directed study projects for graduate students as arranged with a faculty member.', 'ELPA/COUN PSY 350 — Peer Leadership and Mentorship with Transitioning Students 1 credit. Examines student development in the first college year and strategies upper class students can utilize to be effective leaders and mentors of new students.', 'ELPA 502 — Workshop in Educational Leadership and Policy Analysis 1-3 credits. Practical problems derived from student interests and needs.', 'ELPA/ED POL 542 — Law and Public Education 3 credits. Examines the legal issues related to the policy decisions and delivery of public education (elementary and secondary) in the United States. Learn how law impacts both curriculum development and curricular delivery, explore current legal controversies, constitutional issues, and learn about legal reasoning and analysis. Examines how both legislation and litigation affects public education. Particular attention is paid to law as public policy and the analysis of the same.', 'ELPA 600 — Cooperative Program Off-campus Term 0 credits. For participants in M.S. cooperative program to maintain UW-Madison status during terms when taking courses from partner institution.', "ELPA 640 — Legal Rights and Responsibilities for Teachers 1-3 credits. Examines the legal issues confronting the classroom teacher on a daily basis. An emphasis will be placed on understanding legal analysis in order to empower teachers to better balance the multiple interests confronting them. Also, understanding of how law can further the development of a democratic classroom. Specific topics to be examined include: curricular control, teachers' academic freedom, religion in the curriculum, equity in programming, special education, student records, student discipline, teacher contracts, teacher discipline, and negligence.", 'ELPA 700 — Field Experience in Educational Leadership 3 credits. Supervised field experience: elementary, secondary, vocational, technical, higher, and/or special education at local, state, or national level.', 'ELPA 701 — Introduction to Higher and Post-Secondary Education 3 credits. Examines the history and philosophy of higher and postsecondary education; the major participants; curriculum; governance and leadership; relations with state and federal government; and current issues.', 'ELPA 702 — Introduction to Educational Leadership 3 credits. Integration of research, theory, and standards of practice for effective leadership in contemporary educational organizations.', 'ELPA 703 — Evaluating and Supporting Quality Classroom Teaching 3 credits. Evaluate teaching practices and recognize and support quality classroom teaching in K-12 settings. Application of established evaluation frameworks to video cases of classroom practice.', 'ELPA 710 — Introduction to Intercollegiate Athletics Administration 3 credits. Examine the administration of intercollegiate athletics in higher education institutions with particular emphasis on providing practical and theoretical approaches.', 'ELPA 715 — Governance and Administration of Colleges and Universities 3 credits. Functions, organization, and administrative practices of colleges and universities; role of governing boards, administrators, faculty members, and students in policy making.', 'ELPA/COUN PSY/CURRIC/ED POL/ED PSYCH/RP & SE 719 — Introduction to Qualitative Research 3 credits. Provides an overview of qualitative inquiry, examining assumptions, standards, and methods for generating and communicating interpretations. Methodological and theoretical works illustrate case study, ethnography, narrative, and action research. Does not include a field method component.', 'ELPA 725 — Research Methods and Procedures in Educational Administration 3 credits. Role of theory and hypothesis testing in research. Introduction to research problems, questions, hypotheses, variables, constructs, definitions, measurement, research and experimental designs, sampling, descriptive statistics, proposal writing, types of research and statistical computing. Critical analysis of published research.', 'ELPA 726 — Data-Based Decision-Making for Educational Leadership 3 credits. Engages educational leaders in data-driven decision making from a system-wide perspective, and developing basic data analysis skills.', 'ELPA 735 — Leadership for Equity and Diversity 3 credits. Coordinating and effective utilization of school-based special services in the context of student diversity with attention to values, theory, and research underlying curriculum, instruction and policy, in terms of social class, gender, sexual orientation, disability, and race.', 'ELPA 736 — Administration of Student Services in Higher Education 3 credits. Organization and administration of student services in higher education including philosophy, current issues, student development, program planning, financial aid, auxiliary services, housing, counseling, advising, social and health services, student organizations, legal aspects, and special populations.', 'ELPA/CURRIC 746 — The Adult Learner: Implications for Curriculum and Instruction 3 credits. Analysis of the principles and instructional models applicable to the instruction of adults. Attention to the integration of research on learning and teaching in informal and formal educational settings.', 'ELPA 750 — Coaching Athletics 1: Everyday Practices of Top Leaders 3 credits. Employs an everyday practices conceptual framework. Core tenets: brokering, embedding, experimenting, targeting high doses, zeal. Examines complexities of coaching practice, including individual, organizational, and contextual variables. Draws from research on leadership. Uses research-driven framework to analyze coaching practice across five domains. Highlights processes that guide successful coaches at multiple levels. Encourages reflection upon coaching aspirations and trajectories.', 'ELPA 751 — Leadership and Justice in Sports 3 credits. Examines the broad landscape of athletics, focusing on matters of human, social, economic, and cultural capital. Draws from prominent books, articles, documentaries, and other sources to develop expanded perspectives and nuanced understandings of leadership and social justice in sports. Specific learning foci include the social, cultural, and historical roles of sports and the traditional and emerging roles of athletes and coaches. Particular attention paid to matters of race, poverty, activism, youth sports, college sports reform, and the leadership that unfolds in these settings.', 'ELPA 752 — Coach as Teacher: Mastering Instructional Practice On and Off the Field 3 credits. Provides opportunities to learn about the theory and practice of instruction in athletics settings. Identifies the hallmarks of excellent teaching and learning. Synthesizes the characteristics and practices of teachers who achieve mastery. Considers how particular contexts (e.g., sport, developmental stage, physical environment) shape teaching and learning. Explores team curriculum. Examines methods of leading and evaluating teaching and learning in sport. Also addresses: practice planning, skills-teaching, feedback, technology, learning targets, on-field instruction, and film room instruction.', "ELPA 753 — Psychology and Coaching in Sports 3 credits. Examines key principles of psychology relating to athletics. Addresses psychological aspects of leading. Examines research on psychology in competition. Considers how attention to psychology improves processes and outcomes. Supports coaches' and leaders' holistic development.", 'ELPA 754 — Running a Championship System: The Badger Sports Leadership Road Course 3 credits. Examines core components of championships sports programs. Uses case study design to examine how leadership unfolds across multiple levels within one setting. Draws from distributed leadership analytic framework. Considers how matters such as talent, culture, commitment, leadership, intelligence, organization, resilience, teamwork, integrity, health, resources, and opportunities intersect in a successful system.', 'ELPA 755 — Coaching Athletics 2: A Bell Cow Way 3 credits. Provides opportunities to learn from specific models of coaching practice. Utilizes Bell Cow method. Articulates processes underlying successful coaching systems. Attends to personal characteristics and unique settings of coaching. Draws from leadership theory.', 'ELPA/ED POL/PUB AFFR 765 — Issues in Educational Policy Analysis 3 credits. Theory, research, and practical experience in educational policy analysis, including the social construction of policy problems in education; the design, implementation, and evaluation of policy responses; and the practical and ethical dilemmas of the policy analyst.', 'ELPA/INTER-HE 770 — Community, Opportunity, and Justice 3 credits. Critical examination of school-community engagement and collaboration. Examines theory and practice of mutually beneficial collaboration in diverse education settings, including leadership issues in collaborative settings, and facilitators and inhibitors to effective collaboration.', "ELPA 777 — Higher and Post-Secondary Education Capstone Seminar 3 credits. Provides an opportunity to use concepts and theories learned in previous coursework to analyze professional issues facing higher education administrators. Assists with career transitions and provides a culminating experience for the master's program.", 'ELPA/ED PSYCH 780 — Teacher Leadership and Learning Communities 3-4 credits. Focuses on knowledge and skills teachers need to be leaders in their schools in facilitating the development of strong learning communities that include students, teachers, families, administrators, and other educators. Understand key concepts, theories, and models used in building and sustaining effective learning communities; develop skills in creating practices that contribute to effective teacher leadership; and identify and strengthen skills needed to lead schools to build learning communities that promote student learning.', 'ELPA/COUN PSY/CURRIC/ED POL/ED PSYCH/RP & SE 788 — Qualitative Research Methods in Education: Field Methods I 3 credits. Introductory field methods experience in qualitative research. Learn to define good research questions, determine which methods of data collection and analysis are useful for addressing those questions, engage in these methods, reflect on their utility in education research.', 'ELPA/COUN PSY/CURRIC/ED POL/ED PSYCH/RP & SE 789 — Qualitative Research Methods in Education: Field Methods II 3 credits. Focus on data analysis and translation of finds and implications. Gain theoretical and practical knowledge and skills regarding coding and analysis techniques, use of qualitative analytic tools, strategies for sharing findings with audiences beyond research team.', 'ELPA 810 — Doctoral Inquiry in Educational Leadership and Policy Analysis 3 credits. Introduction to inquiry in the field of educational leadership and policy analysis for first semester doctoral students. Provides an introduction to research through engagement with ideas, including identifying and crystallizing meaningful problems, fundamentals of research design, and key challenges in conducting disciplined inquiry.', 'ELPA 815 — Problems in College and University Administration 3 credits. Theory and research applied to the study of policy issues and problems in college and university administration.', 'ELPA/ED PSYCH 822 — Introduction to Quantitative Inquiry in Education 3 credits. Utilize the concepts and methods of quantitative social science research to conduct research on education issues. Topics include hypothesis testing, statistical inference, point estimates, graphic and numerical data displays, correlation and regression.', 'ELPA 823 — Data Management for Education Policy Analysis 3 credits. Focuses on the knowledge and skills required to support rigorous quantitative inquiry. Acquire and import data; combine (merge/append) multiple data sets; organize directories and files for optimal workflow; clean data; document data manipulations for reproducibility and transparency; write code to facilitate collaboration; and summarize data in visual (graph, chart, map) and tabular forms.', 'ELPA 824 — Field Research Designs & Methodologies in Educational Administratn 3 credits. Focuses on research design, the major qualitative methods and techniques used in field research, data analysis, communicating field research, ethical challenges, and trustworthiness in conducting qualitative research.', 'ELPA 825 — Advanced Research Methods in Educational Administration 3 credits. Research designs for problems in educational administration including role of theory and hypothesis testing; variable definition and measurement; correlational, survey, experimental and non-experimental, factorial and single-subject designs.', 'ELPA/ED PSYCH 827 — Surveys and Other Quantitative Data Collection Strategies 3 credits. Methods and concepts of survey research methods as they are commonly used in education research. Strategies include surveys (phone, mail, electronic, in person), logs/diaries, and experience sampling instruments. Emphasis is given to self-administered surveys, including periodic surveys, since these strategies are the most common in education research.', 'ELPA/ED POL/PUB AFFR 830 — School Finance and Resource Allocation 3 credits. Contemporary bases for collecting and distributing local, state, and federal funds for elementary and secondary education; problems and issues in financial support of education; current, alternative and more effective uses of educational resources.', 'ELPA 831 — Financing Postsecondary Education 3 credits. Contemporary bases for collecting and distributing funds for postsecondary education provided by two-year institutions, colleges and universities; problems and issues in financing postsecondary institutions; economic aspects of expenditures for postsecondary education.', 'ELPA 832 — Resource Allocation for Equity and Social Justice 3 credits. School finance and resource allocation for educational leaders, with an emphasis on educational adequacy, equity and efficiency. Includes an emphasis on the strategic deployment of human and material resources to address inequality and promote educational opportunity.', 'ELPA/RP & SE 835 — Leadership for Inclusive Schooling 3 credits. Examines historical and organizational context of special education administration at the federal, state and local levels. Includes policy implementation, constituency management, coordination, communication, and current issues.', "ELPA 840 — Public School Law 3 credits. Legal aspects of public K-12 education. Legal structure; employee rights; employee discipline; curriculum; students' rights; student discipline, special education; torts; contracts, religion. Impact of federal and state constitutions, statutes, and court decisions on education.", 'ELPA 841 — Legal Aspects of Higher Education 3 credits. Legal structure of higher education, including historical evolution as well as current legal problems. Attempts to assess the impact of legal decisions, statutes, and regulations upon higher education and to discuss the implications of the interaction of the legal system and university governance for the practicing administrator.', 'ELPA/ED POL/ED PSYCH/RP & SE 842 — Legal Foundations of Special Education and Pupil Services 3 credits. Legal requirements and issues relative to special education and pupil services programs; special education, juvenile justice, programs for English language learners, programs for children who are homeless; examination of applicable federal and state statutes and case law.', 'ELPA 844 — Technology and School Leadership 3 credits. Investigates how school leaders develop and use technological tools and systems to improve student learning and effect change in schools.', "ELPA 845 — School-Level Leadership 3 credits. Dimensions of school-level leadership includes a focus on dimensions of the principal's leadership role, leadership tasks needed to advance equity and excellence in student learning, and distributed leadership.", 'ELPA 846 — The School Superintendency 3 credits. Investigation of leadership and political theories, professional competencies, and the personal commitment involved in the role of the school superintendent. Covers the evolution of theoretical and practical perspectives of the school superintendence, including internship experiences.', "ELPA 847 — Instructional Leadership and Teacher Capacity 3 credits. Learn to create and sustain successful teaching and learning environments. Designed to provide teachers, learning specialists, principals, and other administrators with the foundations of research, theory, and best practices of instructional leadership to enhance teachers' capacity for equity and excellence in student learning.", "ELPA 848 — Professional Development and Organizational Learning 3 credits. Examines educators' professional learning in organizations and its contributions to organizational change, learning, and renewal.", 'ELPA 856 — Mobility and Inclusion in Global Higher Education 3 credits. Connects the discussion on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) with student mobility in the context of internationalization of higher education. Delve into inquiries on why and how promoting mobility in international education and advancing DEI in higher education can benefit and enhance each other. Primarily serves as a venue to develop knowledge, expertise, and research skills in developing and implementing policies, programs, and strategies aiming at promoting international mobility in higher education through the lens of social justice. Strives for diversity, equity, and inclusion in the context of internationalization of higher education.', 'ELPA 860 — Organizational Theory and Behavior in Education 3 credits. Theoretical constructs and empirical research relating to administering organizations in education. Emphasis on administrative behavior with special attention to planning and organizational improvement.', 'ELPA 863 — Race, Class and Educational Inequality 3 credits. Critically examines race and class inequality in education, including the importance of race and class at multiple levels of analysis, including the classroom and school, as well as the family, neighborhood, and community.', 'ELPA 870 — The Politics of Education 3 credits. Policy development in education as a political process; community power, state and national politics in educational decision making; role of leadership and pressure groups, particularly the educational lobbies, in the shaping of educational policy at local, state, and national levels.', 'ELPA 875 — Theory and Practice of Educational Planning 3 credits. Theory, research and practice in advanced program planning and evaluation involving elementary, secondary and higher and post-secondary education.', "ELPA 878 — The American Community College 3 credits. Addresses policies, trends, and debates in the evolution of the American community college from the beginning of the 20th century to the present, as well as current research on the community college and the diverse body of students it serves. Topics include, but are not limited to, governance and administration, faculty and advising, credential completion and transfer, enrollment patterns, developmental education, complexities surrounding students' goals and aspirations, and the cooling-out versus warming-up effect of the community college. Through class discussions and the culminating course project (research study or policy proposal), course participants will engage in a critical, scholarly examination of the American community college, considering its strengths and weaknesses, as well as opportunities and challenges within the broader context of education.", 'ELPA 880 — Academic Programs in Colleges and Universities 3 credits. Explores higher education curriculum including academic program philosophy and design, planning and development, program innovations, liberal education, academic majors, graduate and professional education, program review and evaluation.', 'ELPA 881 — Ideas of the University: Images of Higher Learning for the 21st Century 3 credits. Explores alternative images and models to guide universities in the twenty-first century by engaging a diverse range of voices representing multiple stakeholders.', 'ELPA 882 — Minority-Serving Institutions of Higher Education 3 credits. Examines the origins, contemporary landscape, structures, and stakeholders of minority-serving institutions (MSIs) -- historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs), Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs), and tribal colleges and universities (TCUs) -- including related challenges and opportunities for research and practice.', 'ELPA 883 — Perspectives on College Student Identity and Development 3 credits. An introduction to identity and college student development theory that can either be applied to higher education administration practice or to research in higher education.', "ELPA 885 — Leadership for Study Abroad Programs and International Student Services 3 credits. A comprehensive understanding of leadership and administration of higher education study abroad programs and international student services. Delving into the latest discussion and debates on this subject from both researchers' and practitioners' points of view, serves as a venue to develop knowledge and expertise in developing and implementing policies, programs, and strategies for optimizing leadership for study abroad programs, international student services, and international enrollment management.", 'ELPA 886 — Internationalization of Higher Education 3 credits. Close look at issues, trends, and challenges concerning internationalization in higher education in both the U.S. and foreign countries. Focus includes internationalizing teaching and learning, international partnerships and collaborations, international student recruitment and advising, study abroad etc.', 'ELPA 887 — Diversity and Inequality in Higher Education 3 credits. Survey of equity issues related to higher education access, admissions, transitions, persistence, and success. Focuses on the role of inequities across categories such as race, class, sex, gender, sexual orientation, language, nationality, or religion in higher education alongside considerations as to how researchers and practitioners can better communicate with one another about diversity issues.', 'ELPA 888 — Assessment in Higher Education 3 credits. An overview of the key concepts, tools, and practices of assessment in academic and student services settings. A theoretical and practical basis for choosing, designing and using assessment and evaluation tools will also be provided.', 'ELPA 890 — Applied Research in Educational Administration 3 credits. Supervised research on topics in the administration of elementary and secondary education.', 'ELPA 900 — Internship in Educational Administration 1-3 credits. Internship completed in a school setting. Provides the opportunity to practice the application of knowledge gained in the academic program, examine administrative practice, and use reflection to improve practice.', "ELPA 910 — Seminar in Educational Law 3 credits. Interpretation and critique of legal authority impacting education. Topics may include education and religion, students' rights, teachers' rights, and federal involvement in education.", "ELPA 911 — Authentic Pedagogy and Achievement 3 credits. Concentrates on a specific formulation of authentic intellectual work that has a compelling research base. Critical analysis of some of the roots of authentic pedagogy, its research base, its connections to other formulations (critical pedagogy, culturally relevant pedagogy), as well as theoretical perspectives and empirical studies on pedagogy's role in the reproduction of inequality and its possibilities for social justice. Read seminal works on pedagogy and assessment, in the sociology of education, and in critical/post-structural theory applied to teaching, and relate them to both current assessment practices/policies and education leadership.", 'ELPA 940 — Special Topics Seminar in Educational Leadership 1-3 credits. Research on and/or discussion of selected topics in educational leadership and policy analysis.', 'ELPA 960 — Seminar in Educational Finance 3 credits. Problems of financing education; school financial management; and related research.', 'ELPA 961 — Critical Issues in Educational Policy 3 credits. Orients contemporary policy issues in education by connecting education policy to rigorous research evidence, using a theoretically motivated and disciplinary-based approach to understand educational policies, processes, and outcomes. Considers current efforts to "translate" key research findings to practitioners, policymakers, and laypersons in schools and communities, where the results can help improve educational practice and results. Discusses how research evidence from a range of disciplines - including psychology, sociology, social work, and economics - has been, is being, and could be applied to educational practice and education policy.', 'ELPA 965 — Seminar in the Politics of Education 3 credits. Research related to power structure, decision making, pressure groups, and professional influence in the formulation of public policy in education at the local, state, and national levels.', 'ELPA 990 — Research or Thesis 1-12 credits. ELPA 999 — Independent Reading', '1-3 credits. ', 'ED POL/HISTORY 107 — The History of the University in the West 3 credits. Traces the development of higher education and, specifically, the institution known as the "university," in the United States and Europe since the Middle Ages. Concentrates on the intellectual, political, and social history of higher education, focusing particularly on the history of the "university" as an IDEA, an INSTITUTION, and as a community of PEOPLE, including students and faculty.', 'ED POL 112 — Global Education through Film 3 credits. Introduces global educational issues, policies, and practices through films. Considers education in context, thinking critically about the role of education in the world. Compares across issues, places, policies, and practices. Examines the diversity of global educational spaces and practices, both in and out the classroom, and the purposes of education in society, including how political socialization, economic development, social mobility, and social solidarity are often in conflict.', 'ED POL 140 — Introduction to Education 3 credits. An introduction to fundamental educational questions, concepts, perspectives and ideas, designed to enable thoughtful examination and assessment of proposed and existing educational policies and practices.', 'ED POL/HISTORY 143 — History of Race and Inequality in Urban America 3 credits. Examine the historical relationships between metropolitan change, economic transformation, and the construction of race and how those processes have shaped mass incarceration, educational, housing, and income inequality, and the experiences of racial/ethnic minorities who have been marginalized or discriminated against. Key questions include: What is the historical nature of inequality and opportunity in metropolitan America? What policies and ideas have historically promoted inequality, and how have those policies and ideas shifted over time? How have marginalized people responded to inequality, and what impacts have various modes of resistance had? Lastly, what is "race," how has its meaning changed over time, and how has it historically shaped inequality and opportunity?', 'ED POL 145 — Introduction to Education Policy 3 credits. Introduction to K-12 education policy, policy processes, and school governance in the United States. Examines the multiple and sometimes conflicting goals that animate education debates; the discourses and representations of schools, students, and education policies that shape policy and politics; research on education and education policy; and the various lenses and conceptual tools that can help us understand education policy. Includes original policy texts, empirical and conceptual research, current events, and film. Considers how key themes may be useful (or not) for thinking about early childhood education, higher education, and K-12 education in historical and contemporary, US and and global, contexts.', 'ED POL 150 — Education and Public Policy 1-3 credits. Examines a variety of topics related to educational policies, practices, and issues in social, cultural, historical, and political economic contexts in the U.S. and around the world.', 'ED POL 180 — Education and White Supremacy 3 credits. Provides an overview of the construction of racialized identity in the US and around the world. Examines the relationship between race, ethnicity, and white supremacy as social constructions and connects this to historical and current models of schooling. Explores the concept of settler colonialism and introduces its history in the US and in Wisconsin. Fosters understanding of white supremacy and of formal schooling as national systems that often work to reinforce one another, and of alternative approaches to schooling and society that can foster equity and justice.', 'ED POL 197 — Listening to the Land 3 credits. What if our best teacher is all around us, even under our feet? For Indigenous peoples, whose worldviews, languages, and lifeways emerge from, and sustain, reciprocal relations to place, land is always teaching. Reflect on "land as first teacher" by considering Indigenous approaches to learning, Indigenous languages in relation to land, and the current environmental health of land. Seeks to live the principles of Indigenous learning through Indigenous foodways and experiential, place-based learning activities. Together, develop a personal relationship to Teejop (Four Lakes, or the Madison region), and explore generational responsibilities to Teejop. What does the land teach? And how do people learn to listen?', 'ED POL 200 — Race, Ethnicity, and Inequality in American Education 3 credits. Explores the complex relationships among race, ethnicity and inequality in U.S. public education through theoretical, historical, social, and cultural frameworks and perspectives. Specifically, examine how schools serve are sites where racial/ethnic inequality is produced, reproduced, and resisted through institutional structures and the "everyday" practices of teachers, students, parents, and community members. Examine how race and ethnicity intersect with other identities (e.g. gender, social class, sexual orientation, etc.). It is centrally focused on K-12 education and working in multicultural contexts.', 'ED POL 202 — Careers in Education 3 credits. Explores the meaning, value, and potential of an education/social sciences major for a variety of education-related careers in the contemporary workplace. Includes a review of theories of the relationships among education, work, skills and society, analyses of contextual forces shaping education and the labor market (the Covid-19 pandemic, inequality and racism, and climate change), individual and collaborative assignments focused on developing key competencies (e.g., oral and written communication, critical thinking), and hands-on activities to provide practical tools for succeeding in college and the 21st century workplace (e.g., writing a cover letter, conducting literature reviews).', 'ED POL 203 — Internship in Education 1-3 credits. Provides the opportunity to reflect and critically analyze work experience in the field of education and enhance career opportunities through the exposure to the nexus of theory and practice.', 'ED POL 205 — Language and Social Inequality 3 credits. Examine cultural and language politics, policies, and practices in education. Read in the fields of anthropology, sociolinguistics, and language policy to consider how language policies, politics, and practices either reinforce or reduce educational and social inequality.', 'ED POL 209 — Introduction to Quantitative Methods in Education Policy 3 credits. Introduction to how quantitative inference is used in education policy. Focuses on the use of quantitative reasoning as a tool to analyze and interpret data. Activities support understanding the basics of generating and interpreting data in both visual and numerical form. Includes a practical component that provides opportunities to practice interpreting and writing about data.', 'ED POL 210 — Youth, Education, and Society 3 credits. Explores the study of youth through theoretical, historical, social, and cultural perspectives with a focus on Minoritized Youth; interrogates the concept of "youth" as a socially constructed category; examines how "youth" have been positioned within educational, political, economic, and social contexts; analyzes how youth\'s racialized experiences intersect with other social identities: social class, gender, and sexuality. Themes explored: conceptions of youth as a social category, education and schooling, race, gender, sexuality, politics and activism, community-based learning, criminal justice, media, and popular culture. Uses historical and contemporary "texts" and current events to study the lived experiences of young people within diverse racial, cultural, gendered, sexualized and classed contexts. Reflect on own experiences as "youth," their relationship to education and other social institutions, and how it informs understanding of society, educational theory and practice.', 'ED POL 212 — Education for Social Justice 3 credits. Learn theories and practices of educating for social justice, a pedagogical-political approach based on participatory methodologies that is committed to positive social change. Discuss popular education, peace and human rights education, critical pedagogy, and related approaches. Engage in theoretical debates, focusing on the ideas of transformative educators such as Paulo Freire and bell hooks, and learn about radical educator collectives and transformative education efforts in districts, schools, classrooms, community associations, and NGOs from around the world.', "ED POL 220 — Human Rights and Education 3 credits. Explores questions related to human rights and education, from the individual to the global level; from the abstract to the practical: What does it mean to be human? How do we learn to be human? What rights mark a human being? Do all human have rights? If they have a right to education, do they have a right to a particular kind of education? Can one global education and human rights model best meet the needs of our incredibly diverse global population? Can the global human rights framework improve current educational, national, social, and economic inequities? How so? How does education as a human right relate to human rights education? and who should decide the answers to these questions, and how? Investigates the tensions and boundaries of the human rights framework to reduce social inequality through methodological inquires in educational case studies, including: educational inequality; victims of the war on drugs; working children's rights; and climate change.", 'ED POL 237 — Wealth, Poverty and Inequality: Transnational Perspectives on Policy and Practice in Education 3 credits. Examines poverty, inequality, and education from a theoretical, historical, and practical perspective through an introduction to historical and contemporary debates on wealth, poverty, and inequality. Interrogates these debates in relation to policies, practice, and institutions of education.', 'ED POL 240 — Comparative Education 3 credits. Examines the socio-cultural, political and economic forces that shape education around the world, including in the U.S. Explores a series of essential questions about the means and ends of education, including: the purposes of schooling in different locations; the role of schooling in producing inequality or supporting social change, particularly in relation to class, race, gender, migration, language, and abilities; global educational reform; global educational assessments; curriculum and pedagogy; and teacher education.', 'ED POL 260 — Introduction to International Education Development 3 credits. Examines theories, institutions, and issues in international educational development.', 'ED POL 274 — Education Studies--Study Abroad/Global Education 1-3 credits. Topics vary reflecting the specializations, expertise, and curricula of study-abroad programs.', 'ED POL 300 — School and Society 3 credits. Focuses on the interplay between schools and society by examining societal and cultural influences on school processes, policies, practices, and pedagogy; or, how society shapes schooling, and conversely, the ways in which schools assist in shaping society. Reflect on the purposes of schools and how these purposes have shifted over time. Examines how assumptions regarding the purposes of schooling interact with debates over how we teach, what we teach, and how we evaluate schools, teachers, and students. Identify the foundations of education in the United States and critically examine the ways in which educational practices and policies impact the lives of students.', 'ED POL 305 — Democracy and Education 3 credits. Explores both the form(s) of education in democracies and the controversies that shape education in the contemporary U.S. context. Examines the history of elements of mass schooling in the U.S., analyzes the competing values at play in contemporary issues, and explores some of the human stories behind some of the most enduring problems in U.S. education. Discusses the necessity of education for democratic life, the challenges inherent in mass schooling in the U.S., and the varying positions that animate contemporary educational debates. Evaluates a variety of educational issues on the basis of democratic criteria such as equality, liberty, and justice.', 'ED POL 320 — Climate Change, Sustainability, and Education 3 credits. Provides an overview of diverse theories and models of human-earth relations, and the causes and consequences of climate and environmental change. Develops a critical, global approach to examining the role of education, in school and out, in addressing crucial climate and environmental challenges. Focuses on a wide range of educational theories, projects, programs, levels, institutions, strategies, and policies.', 'ED POL/INTL ST 335 — Globalization and Education 3 credits. Discuss the ways education is inextricably linked to global political, economic, and social contexts. Reflect on both scholarly research and popular conceptions of market, society and schools in different geographic and cultural contexts. Approach globalization from a context-sensitive, place-based approach, rather than abstract, predictive method through interdisciplinary analysis. Explore the concept of globalization across disciplinary frameworks including anthropology, geography, and history. Provides critical analysis to understand the challenges facing education in a globalization era, to build stronger commitment to helping address those challenges, and a set of skills for researching and writing about them. Examine the following "problem-spaces": globalization and migration; globalization and race; global testing and assessment; marketization of education; global city development and higher education; youth culture and globalization.', 'ED POL 345 — Economics of Education 3 credits. Engages with contemporary issues in the economics of education across the K-12 and postsecondary policy arenas in the US and beyond. With foundations in human capital and the education production function, covers a wide variety of topics, including teacher labor markets and teacher quality, school choice, K-12 and higher education finance, and the individual and collective returns to education. Discuss, present, and critique education policy issues through the lens of economics and apply course content to current issues in education policy, including creation and dissemination of recommendations for education policy and practice.', 'ED POL 350 — Topics in Education Studies 3 credits. Examines contemporary topics and debates in education studies; develops research, analytical, and other skills to work in education careers.', 'ED POL 399 — Independent Reading 1-3 credits. ED POL/HISTORY 412 — History of American Education', '3 credits. Examines the history of education in America from the colonization of North America to the present to consider education in its broadest sense - as a process of individual development and cultural transmission. Explores such topics as the rise of common schools in the urban North; the education of Native Americans, immigrants, slaves, and free blacks; the evolution of teacher training (primarily for women); various philosophies of "progressive" school reform; the politics of desegregation, bilingual education, and special education; the articulation between high school and college work; and the evolving federal role in American education. ED POL 420 — Education in East Asia', '3 credits. An overview and discussion on the values, histories, systems, policies, problems, and reforms of education in East Asian societies. Examines extended issues in comparative education, including education and its relation to economic development, social inequality and stratification, gender and family, ethnicity and migration, identity formation, and student movements. ED POL 423 — Education for Global Change', '3 credits. How do people conceptualize and utilize education to (attempt to) create individual, familial, community, institutional, national, and global change? Push collective understanding about the diverse ways that people have conceptualized change, its goals, and the mechanisms through which to produce change around the world. Explore a diverse range of educational approaches (including formal, informal, non-formal, and "traditional" educational models) to transforming the world. Draw on a range of disciplinary and sectoral approaches, including education, public health, and public policy; and a broad range of change models, including individual and peer behavior change, social marketing, social movements, chaos theory, and liberation theory. ED POL 435 — Education in Emergencies', '3 credits. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that more than 82.4 million individuals have been forcibly displaced from their homes. More than a third of them are refugees, and more than 13 million are under the age of 18. In contrast to the portrayals of children wandering among the iconic UNHCR white tents in refugee camps, new images of refugee boys and girls attending public schools raise questions about the role of humanitarianism and education across the world. What are the causes of forced migration? Who counts as a refugee today? What do camp refugees and urban refugees have in common? How do we guarantee access to school for these populations? What would a high-quality curriculum look like for these students? ED POL 450 — Rethinking "After-School" Education', '3 credits. Provides an opportunity to engage with and discuss historical, ideological, and contemporary issues within community-based after school programs at large and within the Madison context. Examine the social and political context of after school programs to better understand the ways in which they have the potential to meet important needs. ED POL 460 — Immigration, Education, and Equity', '3 credits. Examines policy issues surrounding the education of children from immigrant families in K-16 educational settings in the U.S. Explores the economic, social, political, and ideological contexts of immigration and education, as well as school factors and home-school relations through readings, discussions, and assignments. Considers the impact of various policy and pedagogical approaches. Course readings draw from relevant literature in educational anthropology, sociology of education, educational policy, sociolinguistics, and language pedagogy. ED POL/HISTORY 478 — Comparative History of Childhood and Adolescence', '3 credits. Examines the growth of modern childhood and adolescent sub-cultures, class differences, literary and pictorial representations, legal and demographic developments, and the growth of educational theories and institutions. ED POL 500 — Topics on Social Issues and Education', '3 credits. Explore contemporary social issues or problems and their significance for educational purposes and practices. Designed for various special topics on social issues and education. ED POL 501 — Qualitative Research Methods in Education', '3 credits. Examines qualitative research methods for educational research - specifically, the role of theory, how to develop a research question, how to design a study, interviewing, conducting observations, doing initial data analysis, and presenting an original qualitative research project. Complete a series of "stepping stone" assignments (practica) and peer feedback activities designed to scaffold the research experience in an organized, supportive, informed, and meaningful way. ED POL 505 — Issues in Urban Education in the U.S.', "3 credits. Explore urban education in the United States and its relationship to broader political, social, and economic contexts; focuses on contemporary urban educational issues and students' experiences in school and community settings, the experiences of students and families of color and the relationship between race, class, gender, and inequality in urban education. ED POL 510 — Urban School Policy", '3 credits. Examines the following questions focusing on: goals and values for urban schools, framings of "the problem" of K-12 urban schooling in the United States, evidence of the complexities and research evidence on contemporary policies for improving urban schools, and theories of urban school politics, policy, and equity-oriented school reform. Focuses on system-level educational problems, politics, and policies. ED POL/CURRIC/HISTORY/JEWISH 515 — Holocaust: History, Memory and Education', '3 credits. Explores the ways in which Holocaust history, memory and education are mutually entangled, politically charged and morally complex. Using primarily American sites of memory, critically analyze a variety of representations of the Shoah--in literature, films, memoirs, monuments, museums and classrooms. ED POL/CURRIC/RELIG ST 516 — Religion and Public Education', '3 credits. Examines theories and practices related to the role of religion in public schooling and its accompanying tensions: political and philosophical, practical and personal. ED POL 518 — Introduction to Debates in Higher Education Policy', '3 credits. Critical examination of debates in contemporary higher education policy. Explores the sociocultural tensions among key policy goals such as quality, equity, and efficiency, and the results (including unintended consequences) of those tensions. Examines the theory and research brought to bear on policy debates, and how they are used-or not used-to shape policy agendas. ED POL/ELPA 542 — Law and Public Education', '3 credits. Examines the legal issues related to the policy decisions and delivery of public education (elementary and secondary) in the United States. Learn how law impacts both curriculum development and curricular delivery, explore current legal controversies, constitutional issues, and learn about legal reasoning and analysis. Examines how both legislation and litigation affects public education. Particular attention is paid to law as public policy and the analysis of the same. ED POL/PHILOS 545 — Philosophical Conceptions of Teaching and Learning', '3 credits. Examination and analysis of conceptions of teaching and learning in classical philosophical works and in contemporary literature in the philosophy of education. ED POL/PHILOS 550 — Philosophy of Moral Education', '3 credits. Critical examination of classical and contemporary conceptions of moral education. ED POL/GEN&WS 560 — Gender and Education', '3 credits. Examines the relationship between gender and education and explores notions of gender as socially constructed categories and identities. Identify the ways schools (re)produce and mediate gender identities and explore the experiences of students. Draws on critical and feminist perspectives to analyze the ways gender intersects with understandings of identity performance and expression such as masculinity and femininity, as well as at the intersection of race, ethnicity, class, and sexuality in schooling processes. ED POL/AFROAMER 567 — History of African American Education']